# Project Synopsis

Study on the effects of copper exposure on H. oregonensis. Heavy metal pollution in general is common in areas with human activity, and copper pollution specifically can come from a number of sources including stormwater runoff and leaching from antifouling paints. As such, it is important to understand the effects of this sort of pollution on the animals living along our coasts - both to understand the impact on the ecosystem in general and to understand the potential impact on commercially valuable species such as the Dungeness crab.
We exposed H. oregonensis to 25 mg/L and 167 mg/L of copper sulfate pentahydrate for two weeks and measured effects to respiration and behavior. For respiration, we performed resazurin assays after one and two weeks using the resazurin methodology under procedures, and for behavior we recorded righting times by flipping individual crabs onto their backs and measuring the time taken to right themselves. We also recorded mortalities over the course of the two weeks in both groups.
Both groups had notable rates of mortalities, especially the high copper group. While the lowest righting times in the high copper group were in line with the lowest righting times in the low copper and control groups, the high copper group had a much greater range with some crabs taking much longer to right themselves than any in the other groups. Additionally, in week one respiration was lower in the two copper groups than in the control, although in week two respiration in the low copper and control groups had no notable difference.
